- [Instructor] Let us now write another method,
which will accommodate the PathVariable annotation.
So let's go back to the IDE.
Let's come down on line 37.
Mention GetMapping and let's say hplus
rest products.
But this time, this URL will also have a PathVariable,
and that is mentioned with the help of curly braces,
so I'm just going to say id.
And let's follow that with a method.
That method will look very similar to the earlier one,
it will return a ResponseEntity,
but this time I'm just going to label it differently,
getProductsByPathVariable.
And this time, the method argument that we have
will be annotated with the PathVariable annotation.
And let's make sure that this is also id.
So this name that you have provided here, and here,
should be exactly the same.
And let's say this maps to a String variable, again.
Okay, there's one small change that we have to do.
Instead of id, we are just going to use the name parameter,
so I'm just going to quickly change that respectively
in all places.
And let that map to Sting name.
And the rest of the stuff is exactly the same.
I'm just going to copy lines 33 and 34.
And come down and paste them here.
So what we have essentially done is
we have written two methods.
Both of them get mappings.
The URL patterns are a little different
because this one takes a PathVariable
and this one takes a RequestParam.
So in order to bind that incoming request parameter
to your method, we have @RequestParam annotation,
and to bind the incoming PathVariable to our method,
we have @PathVariable annotation.
So, we are ready, now let's just go and build this,
and test the services out using Postman tool.
So now let's go ahead to Postman,
and we are just going to modify this get request
and add a query param this time.
And, if you go back to the IDE, just to make sure,
the name of the request parameter is name.
So, let's go back, say question mark name equal to water.
So if you hit this request, you should get products only
which have water in them, so this is calling the like query
in our repository class, and retrieving you those products.
If you look here, on Postman,
you can see the status, 200, the time it takes
to complete the request, et cetera.
Now let's test out the other method,
which is taking the PathVariable.
So slight modification will be required
in the request that you hit.
Instead of this query param, let's eliminate that,
and let's say slash water, like that.
So that will become, now, the PathVariable
that you're sending to the request.
So let's hit send, and the result is more or less the same.
Let me just change this parameter
so that we get a different result sect.
Let's say chocolate.
There we go.
So we have the respective results retrieved
with a status 200, all of it is okay.
So what we have done is we have built a rest controller,
and it is always good to have the return type
as ResponseEntity, which can accommodate both.
The HttpStatus code, and the data.
And this HttpStatus is basically borrowed from the
org springframework http package,
which gives you a list of designated HTTP codes
that you can map as a part of your ResponseEntity object.
In the next video, we also find out
how do you send those error codes.
So if, let's say, the results was not found,
then how do you incorporate 404 as the status code?
We have a different use case for it,
coming up in the next video.